2012-06-21 Release 0.6
----------------------

Nonfunctional changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Redesign of the underlying framework to reduce the number of
   necessary threads and system footprint.

Features
~~~~~~~~

-  `Network plugin <plugins/network>`_ to receive TCP/UDP and send UDP
   messages and to trigger logics.
-  `DMX plugin <plugins/dmx>`_ accepts now a channel list to bound
   several channel to one item (value)
-  `KNX plugin <plugins/knx>`_ changed class options to ``host`` and
   ``port``. Adding support for more DPTs. Sending the date/time on the
   bus.
-  `Asterisk plugin <plugins/asterisk>`_ changed class options to
   ``host`` and ``port``. New functions: db\_write, db\_read and
   mailbox\_count.
-  `1-Wire plugin <plugins/onewire>`_ changed class options to ``host``
   and ``port``. Supporting the current owfs version (2.8p15). New
   function `ibutton\_hook <plugins/onewire/#ibuttonhookibutton-item>`_
   to monitor intrusion attempts.
-  `Visu <plugins/visu>`_ three new interactive image elements added:
   switch, push and set. See the example.html file. JQuery mobile
   updated to 1.1.0. Websocket default ``port`` changed to 2121.
-  New `item types </config#item-attributes>`_ list and foo.
-  New start option ``-d`` to set the log level to debug.
-  UDP plugin is no longer supported. Please use the generic network
   plugin instead.

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

-  Due to the redesign several bugs are fixed. I hope it will not
   intruduce the same amount of new bugs ;-)

