2013-01-31 Release 0.8
----------------------

with contributions from: Niko Will and Alexander Rieger. Thank you.

I am happy to announce a new cooperation with
`smartVISU <http://code.google.com/p/smartvisu/>`_ to give you the best
user interface experience.

New Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~

-  `DWD Plugin <plugins/dwd>`_: fetch weather warnings and forecasts
   from Deutscher Wetterrdienst (DWD).
-  `Mail Plugin <plugins/mail>`_: sending (SMTP) and receiving (IMAP)
   mail.
-  `RRD Plugin <plugins/rrd>`_: build round robin databases.
-  `Russound Plugin <plugins/russound>`_: control a Russound audio
   device with RIO over TCP.
-  `Snom Plugin <plugins/snom>`_: to handle snom VOIP phones.

Features
~~~~~~~~

-  Base

   -  sh.tools.fetch\_url()
   -  item.conf: new types list, dict
   -  sh.moon() with set(), rise(), pos(), light(), phase()
   -  sh.find\_items('config\_string'), sh.find\_children(self, parent,
      'config\_string')

-  Asterisk plugin: Call Log and mailbox count
-  CLI plugin: adding 'rl' to reload and 'rr' to reload and run logic
-  KNX plugin: DPT 16 support
-  Network plugin: adding a simple http interface
-  Visu plugin:

   -  `smartVISU <http://code.google.com/p/smartvisu/>`_ support: to
      generate pages for and communicate with this visualisation
      framework.
   -  plot rrd with flot
   -  list view
   -  dpt3 push buttons
   -  TITLE header template
   -  adding 'unit' attribute to item.conf
   -  JQuery: 1.8.3, JQuery Mobile 1.2
   -  Log view SmartHome.py, Asterisk

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

-  KNX plugin: knx\_init/knx\_cache could not work if first connection
   attempt failed

   -  dpt 10, 11, 16 handling fix

-  Onewire plugin: improve error handling
-  Workaround for urllib2 memory leakage

