2013-06-13 Release 0.9
----------------------

with code contributions and help from: Alexander Rieger, Matthias Lemke
and Niko Will!

New Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~

-  `Fritzbox Plugin <plugins/fritzbox>`_: control anything a FritzBox
   offers with the web interface.
-  `Luxtronic2 Plugin <plugins/luxtronic2>`_: get state information and
   control Luxtronic 2.0 heating controllers.
-  `MPD Plugin <plugins/mpd>`_: to control Music Player Daemons.
-  `Samsung Smart TV Plugin <plugins/smarttv>`_: send commands to a
   SmartTV device.
-  `Solarlog Plugin <plugins/solarlog>`_: to retrieve information from
   SolarLog devices.
-  `SQLite Plugin <plugins/sqlite>`_: to store the item history in a
   SQLite database.
-  `XBMC Plugin <plugins/xbmc>`_: to control and monitor your XBMC.

Features
~~~~~~~~

-  `Item <config>`_: setting values with the crontab and cycle attribute
-  `Logic <logic>`_: Logic: calling with values by crontab and cycle
-  `Logic <logic>`_: trigger supports destinations in
   ``trigger['dest']``
-  `Logic <logic>`_: de-/activate logics. e.g.
   ``sh.scheduler.change('alarmclock', active=False)``
-  `Logic <logic>`_: new basic methods: sh.return\_item,
   sh.return\_items, sh.match\_items, sh.find\_items, find\_children
-  `Scene support <config>`_: to set multiple item values at the same
   time
-  `1-Wire Plugin <plugins/onewire>`_: rewritten to support many
   different sensors.
-  `Asterisk <plugins/asterisk>`_: adding destination support for
   Userevents
-  `CLI plugin <plugins/cli>`_: new command 'cl' to clean the memory log
   of sh.py
-  `DWD Plugin <plugins/dwd>`_: adding support for Pollen forecast
-  `KNX Plugin <plugins/knx>`_:

   -  change encoding of dpt10 to use a datetime object and send the
      isoweekday
   -  DPT 17 support
   -  adding support to log all packets (busmonitor)

-  `Mail Plugin <plugins/mail>`_: enable sending UTF-8 mails
-  `Visu Plugin <plugins/visu>`_:

   -  change url
   -  smartVISU support multiple widgets with one item

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

-  KNX Plugin: fix broken knx\_cache, with support from
   Robert@knx-user-forum

2013-02-11: Big Picture SmartHome.py with KNX, 1-Wire and smartVISU
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Martin <http://knx-user-forum.de/members/sipple.html>`_ has created an
`overview </_static/img/big_picture.pdf>`_ how SmartHome.py interacts
with KNX, 1-Wire and the smartVISU.

2013-02-02: `Release of an Raspberry Pi image with SmartHome.py and smartVISU <https://github.com/smarthomeng/smarthome/wiki/SmartHome.pi>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
